Project for the Data Analysis Tools course on Coursera

### Hypothesis Testing and ANOVA

There are the [code](https://github.com/ekolik/-Python-Distribution_of_craters_on_Mars/blob/master/data_analysis/data_analysis.py) and its [output](https://github.com/ekolik/-Python-Distribution_of_craters_on_Mars/blob/master/data_analysis/data_analysis_output1week.txt) that are created at this point. 

When examining the correlation between the diameters of craters and their location (in one of 4 quadrants), an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) revealed that these variables are significantly associated, `F(3, 384339) = 251.1, p = 8.27e-163`. Post hoc comparisons of mean diameters of craters by pairs of Mars' quadrants, in which the craters are located, revealed that all 4 quadrants contain craters with significantly different diameters. In particular, craters in the south-eastern quadrant have significantly larger diameters than craters in all other quadrants. Conversely, craters in the north-western quadrant have significantly smaller diameters than craters in all other quadrants. Or, in general, craters in the southern hemisphere have significantly larger diameters than craters in the northern.

### Chi-Square Test of Independence

There are the [code](https://github.com/ekolik/-Python-Distribution_of_craters_on_Mars/blob/master/data_analysis/data_analysis.py) and its [output](https://github.com/ekolik/-Python-Distribution_of_craters_on_Mars/blob/master/data_analysis/data_analysis_output2week.txt) that are created at this point. 

When examining the association between the number of layers in a crater (categorical response: more than/equal to 2 or less than 2) and the crater's location (categorical explanatory variable: one of 4 quadrants of Mars), a chi-square test of independence revealed that these variables are significantly associated: `χ2 = 704.47, p = 2.25e-152, df = 3`. Post hoc comparisons of the number of layers in craters by pairs of quadrants, in which the craters are located, revealed that the north-western quadrant contains the highest percent of crates with number of layers 2 or more, followed by the north-eastern quadrant. Both of these quadrants are statistically different from all other quadrants and from each other in the considered terms. The south-eastern and south-western quadrants contain fewer craters with number of layers 2 or more and are statistically similar in these terms. To visualize the results, the graph that shows the percent of craters with 2 or more layers per each quadrant of Mars was created and can be viewed [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ekolik/-Python-Distribution_of_craters_on_Mars/master/data_analysis/twopluslayers.png).
